It's important to
understand how to protect
an organization's
data and assets
because that will be part of
your role as a security analyst.
Fortunately, there
are principles and
guidelines that can
be used, along with
NIST frameworks and
the CIA triad, to
help security teams
minimize threats and risks.
In this video, we'll
explore some Open
Web Application Security
Project, or OWASP,
security principles that are
useful to know as an
entry-level analyst.
The first OWASP principle is to
minimize the attack
surface area.
An attack surface refers to
all the potential
vulnerabilities
that a threat actor
could exploit,
like attack vectors,
which are pathways
attackers use to penetrate
security defenses.
Examples of common
attack vectors are
phishing emails and
weak passwords.
To minimize the attack surface
and avoid incidents
from these types of
vectors, security teams might
disable software features,
restrict who can access
certain assets, or
establish more complex
password requirements.
The principle of least privilege
means making sure
that users have
the least amount of access
required to perform
their everyday tasks.
The main reason for
limiting access
to organizational
information and
resources is to
reduce the amount of
damage a security
breach could cause.
For example, as an
entry-level analyst,
you may have access to log data,
but may not have access to
change user permissions.
Therefore, if
a threat actor compromises
your credentials,
they'll only be able to gain
limited access to digital
or physical assets,
which may not be
enough for them to
deploy their intended attack.
The next principle we'll
discuss is defense in depth.
Defense in depth means that
an organization should have
multiple security controls that
address risks and threats
in different ways.
One example of a
security control is
multi-factor
authentication, or MFA,
which requires users to take
an additional step beyond simply
entering their username and
password to gain access
to an application.
Other controls
include firewalls,
intrusion detection systems,
and permission
settings that can be
used to create multiple
points of defense,
a threat actor must get through
to breach an organization.
Another principle is
separation of duties,
which can be used to
prevent individuals from
carrying out fraudulent
or illegal activities.
This principle means that
no one should be given
so many privileges that
they can misuse the system.
For example, the person
in a company who signs
the paychecks shouldn't also
be the person who prepares them.
Only two more principles
to go! You're doing great.
Keep security simple is
the next principle.
As the name suggests,
when implementing
security controls,
unnecessarily complicated
solutions should
be avoided because they
can become unmanageable.
The more complex the
security controls are,
the harder it is for people
to work collaboratively.
The last principle is to fix
security issues correctly.
Technology is a great tool,
but can also present challenges.
When a security incident occurs,
security professionals
are expected to
identify the root cause quickly.
From there, it's
important to correct
any identified
vulnerabilities and
conduct tests to ensure that
repairs are successful.
An example of an issue
is a weak password to
access an organization's wifi
because it could
lead to a breach.
To fix this type
of security issue,
stricter password policies
could be put in place.
I know we've covered a lot,
but understanding these
principles increases
your overall security knowledge
and can help you stand out
as a security professional.